# Smart-parking-system
Automation is a step in the right direction for a future fulfilled in the world of transportation. This design provides an effective solution to the common problem discussed. The smart car parking system was designed, fabricated, and tested, which provided accurate results when the threshold distance was calibrated, and the obstruction was detected. The switching of LEDs based on the parking space vehicle was instantaneous, based on no vehicle and vehicle detected.
The design is flexible and can be altered based on the space available and can be installed even in tight and constrained space. Based on the number of Yellow LEDs detected, a common information board is displayed indicating the count of parking spaces available. 
It can be concluded that with the correct connection of some simple electrical components, it is possible to create an automatic smart car parking system, thus decreasing aimless driving, fuel, and time, as well as making the process of parking considerably simpler.

WORKING
The smart car parking system works on the simple principle of detecting obstacles and sending visual feedback. The proximity sensor is mounted on the parking lot ceiling, which consists of an Infra-Red emitter and a receiver. The IR emitter emits infra-red rays, and these rays generally bounce off objects. The IR receiver receives these rays and converts them into an electrical signal creating a potential difference. The resulting potential difference helps complete the circuit. The LEDs are placed along the driveway and switch on based on the input received by the sensor. A threshold distance is calibrated using the potentiometer to fix a particular distance based on vehicles' average height for sending and receiving the radiations. Resistors are provided to ensure the safe working of LEDs and IR sensors. For this project, based on size, a 12V battery is used to power all the components.
Case 1: When the parking space is empty, the IR emitter emitting the rays will not bounce back an object, ie. Vehicle as nothing is detected. The beams will not strike the IR receiver, and hence there will be no rise in potential difference. The feedback of this result makes the Yellow LED switch on, indicating the availability of a parking space.
Case 2: When the parking space is occupied, the IR rays emitted by the emitter are bounced back as the vehicle height is within the threshold distance, and the rays strike the receiver, and these waves are converted into an electrical signal creating a potential difference. The feedback of this result is indicated by the Red LED turning on and thus specifying the driver that the particular parking space is filled.
There is continuous emission of IR waves, so the feedback is instantaneous. As soon as the vehicle exits the parking space, the rays don't return, and the Yellow LED switches back on.

